and if you're watching this and you have
young children primary school-aged
children or teenagers you'll know that
many of them are asking loads of
questions about the coronavirus at
Ranelagh primary in East London a class
of year for pupils that's age 8 or 9 are
learning about it and finding out how to
protect themselves we've been talking
about it a lot but sometimes you're
gonna like like sad about it and so we
just try to not think about it think
everything's fine someone might have the
cone of ice and they don't know and then
might sneeze or cough on me and then
they might give me the cone of ice and I
won't know I met my name is Orion and I
want to know if it is true that someone
has eight bat soup and salted the
coronavirus and spread it around
countries hi my name is Ashley and I
would like to know when will we be safe
from the threat of the corona virus I've
heard a lot because usually my mom gives
me her phone and I look under news no
they don't really worry about it but I'm
quite scared if one of my family members
are sick and they die for me so is
something that worries you a little bit
hi my name is well hi my name is Shay I
want to know if there's any tips or
advice you would give us to not catch
the corona virus is that already a cure
for a corona virus if you like touch
someone when you have to Kern the virus
Oh coughing them look the other person
get the corona virus hi my name is Adam
I would like to know if it is safe to
use a mask to protect ourselves from the
virus hi my name is Sasha and my
question is will you be taken away from
your family if you have the corona virus
if you were sick and you got the virus
how likely would you to die me and my
mum sometimes like talk about it and we
are both kind of worried about it
because like um my family might get the
corona virus and like they might you
gotta have to go to the hospital or
something so
they have brought me love hand sanitizer
they told me everywhere you go you have
to use it you have to wash your hands
and just I'm coughing to a tissue or
coughing to a hand don't coughing at
anyone she's absolutely right let's talk
now to GP dr. faker :
on how to talk to your children about
coronavirus I suppose like us they're
just as concerned although absolutely I
mean over the last few days we've seen a
huge amount of media arounds coronavirus
and everyone's talking about it at home
at work at school how what is the best
way to talk to particularly primary
school-aged children I think the key
thing is to speak simply accurately to
try and give really good advice we know
that there's lots of misinformation on
social media now if you're not sure go
away and look it up look at a good
source we don't have all the answers yet
and I think that's okay to say yeah
rights Bush for them Bushra wanted to
know how the corona virus started good
question we're still looking at that but
we think that it started in what's
called a wet market in China so that's
where there are live animals and dead
animals close together densely populated
when they're still not sure exactly how
it started it but it potentially could
have started in bats in bats yeah that's
my kids keep going on about bats and or
pangolins because one of the kids wanted
to know did it start from someone eating
bat soup but we simply don't know it
specifically as that yes though that
really started because there was a video
that came out on social media soon after
we started hearing about the corona
virus and that is was a woman actually
eating of that now that has since been
debunked it was a video from 2016 it
wasn't even from China but that really
gave rise to the the anxiety around bat
soup that's but that as you say has been
discredited right next to Ishmael who
asked if there are any tips and advice
which you can give to people to help us
prevent spreading absolutely I mean the
key thing that we keep repeating is wash
your hands do that for at least 20
seconds with soap and water make sure
you wash in between your fingers you
underneath your fingernails if you do
sneeze or cough make sure you catch it
in a tissue throw that away wash your
hands and try not to touch your eyes or
your mouth after you've been out and
touching surfaces so when you come home
again wash your hands
Shay wants to know is there a cure I
mean we're all viruses we've got our
natural immunity to be able to fight
them off and we know for the vast
majority of people this will be mild
illness you'll get over it but is there
a cure as such no but we are working on
medications that we already have to see
if they help and also looking at a
vaccine which could take some months now
the masks people continually ask about
the masks and in fact two masks adverts
have been banned today by the aasa' the
Advertising Standards Authority one of
them claimed one of the best ways to
protect yourself is to get a high
quality face mask that can protect you
from viruses bacteria and other air
pollutants that's been banned because
it's absolutely misleading Adele wants
to know is it safe to use a mask it's
it's safe to use one but you don't need
to use what is the key thing
particularly I've seen people wearing
those paper masks there's absolutely no
evidence that you need to do that people
used to use it because they thought that
it would if they were unwell they could
stop the spread to others but if you're
unwell and we think you're at risk of a
corona virus we should be staying at
homes which don't need to use them Kjus
how likely is it that you would die if
you get coronavirus kids straight to the
heart of it yeah so for young people we
know for under-20s that's incredibly
rare they normally get a very mild
illness it's the elderly who are more at
risk and we're still unsure about you
know the rate of death of mortality but
we think it's very low around one to two
percent but people are still looking at
other children incredibly incredibly
rare and actually asking a question that
many are asking how or when will it be
when we'll be safe from coronavirus you
know a really good question and moment
we're still trying to understand the
virus when it will reach a peach the
patterns of the virus so we simply don't
know but the Department of Health public
health England will be keeping us
regularly updated okay and some parents
are by
hand sanitizer for their children but
it's got to have a particular ingredient
in it for actually to kill viruses
hasn't it that's right I mean actually
soapy water is absolutely fine enough
and if you are going to buy a hand as a
hand sanitizer it needs to have alcohol
in it okay